fix(experiments): update exposure documentation. (#16822)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/experiments/running-experiments-without-feature-flags.mdx

---
title: "How to run Experiments without Feature Flags"
---

import { CalloutBox } from 'components/Docs/CalloutBox'

You can run Experiments without using PostHog's Feature Flags if you're using a different feature flag library and want to track your experiment results in PostHog.

This doc walks you through how to set up an experiment without using PostHog's Feature Flags.

## Step 1: Create your experiment in PostHog

Create a new experiment in the [Experiments tab](https://app.posthog.com/experiments) and follow the same steps as you would when [creating a regular experiment](/docs/experiments/creating-an-experiment).

> <CalloutBox type="note">

Reviewer: valid types are `        type: 'action' | 'fyi' | 'caution' | 'info'`

Reviewer: <img width="707" height="193" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-26 at 4 38 37 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6049721a-b7ff-42f7-a8b0-7eface817961" />
Generally these also require a short `        title?: string`

Author: <img width="700" height="269" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df4a3e31-a23f-41f7-a393-c6f95691bab9" />

Although you won't be using PostHog's Feature Flags directly, you still need to name your feature flag key. This key is used to identify which events belong to your experiment when PostHog calculates results.

The 'control' variant name is fixed, but you can name other variants whatever you like.

</CalloutBox>

> ## Step 2: Use your own feature flag system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Display variant your own feature flag system
```

Your feature flag system handles the variant assignment. PostHog only needs to know which variant was shown to each user through the events you send.

## Step 3: Configure a custom exposure event

In your experiment settings, set a [custom exposure event](/docs/experiments/exposures#custom-exposure-events) instead of using the default `$feature_flag_called` event. Choose an event that fires when users encounter your experiment.

For example:
- `$pageview` - if users are exposed when they load a page
- `button_clicked` - if users are exposed when they interact with a feature
- Any custom event from your application

> <CalloutBox type="note">

Reviewer: Same as above w/r to calloutboxes.

You can also just use quote blocks with a `>` for short notes

})

// Later, send metric events
client.Enqueue(posthog.Capture{
    DistinctId: "user_id",
    Event:      "purchase_completed",
    Properties: posthog.NewProperties().
        Set("$feature/new-checkout-flow", variant).
        Set("revenue", 99.99),
})
```

</MultiLanguage>

## How PostHog processes experiment events

Understanding how PostHog calculates experiment results can help you debug issues and ensure your implementation is correct.

### Exposure tracking

When you send your custom exposure event (e.g., `$pageview`), PostHog's exposure query:

1. Filters for events matching your configured exposure event name
2. Extracts the variant from the `$feature/<flag-key>` property
3. Records the user's first exposure timestamp per variant
4. Generates daily exposure counts for each variant

### Metric calculation

For each metric event (identified by the `$feature/<flag-key>` property):

1. PostHog checks if a user was exposed to the experiment
2. Verifies the metric event occurred **after** their first exposure
3. Attributes the event to the variant specified in `$feature/<flag-key>`
4. Includes it in the experiment results

### Multiple variant handling

> If a user is exposed to multiple variants (for example, across different devices), PostHog handles this based on your [exposure criteria settings](/docs/experiments/exposures#handling-multiple-exposures):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user is exposed to multiple variants, like when a user jumps across devices, PostHog handles this based on your [exposure criteria settings](/docs/experiments/exposures#handling-multiple-exposures):
```

- **Exclude from analysis** (default) – Users seeing multiple variants are removed from results

> - **Use first seen variant** – Users are attributed to their first exposed variant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Exclude from analysis** (default): Users seeing multiple variants are removed from results
- **Use first seen variant**: Users are attributed to their first exposed variant
```
